Today, you may be at the crossroad of a new career opportunity.
So, augment your technical skills with project management skills.
It is much harder to outsource project managers than it
is to outsource software engineers, so,
more job security because you are closer to the business,
you are closer to the leaders of the company or organization.
You will have greater visibility by others within the company,
therefore,
you can have a better opportunity to demonstrate that you have more value.
Also, allows you to be part of strategic initiatives of the company.
Allows you to have a greater impact on the future of the organization.
Not only can this course help you with growing your skills
so that you can have a broader career, you may also find it more rewarding.
Case in point is myself.
I find the project management side of my professional growth very,
very rewarding and enjoyable.
More and more businesses are adopting project management
as a normal practice of doing business,
and therefore the business world needs people like you more than ever.
Project managers are near the top of the most sought after jobs.
Here's a list of what is driving the demand for project
managers: outsourcing and vendor management.
That's a biggie.
So much is being outsourced today,
and with the avid of services offered on the cloud,
it is driving the need for business people to determine project parameters.
Complexity.
The greater the complexity,
the greater need for people to pull things together to manage
and orchestrate the project activities.
Cross functional integration.
Projects that cross functional and responsibility lines,
say like IT, manufacturing, and marketing,
will take someone to bridge those areas.
People.
I think people are the most challenging aspect you'll
encounter with project management.
Assess your skills for a moment here.
Are you a people person?
If not, some of the following modules and sections,
will help you improve those skills.
Organizational structure.
If you have three organizations that have a stake in a project,
who will lead it?
Many times,
it just makes sense to have a project manager to cut across the boundaries,
and not be consumed by operational issues.
Risk management.
So much of a manager's job is really risk management.
Many times, projects have too many people rowing the boat,
if you will,
and not enough time and energy looking for the rocks and
shoals so that the boat won't crash.
A big job, as you will see, is the PM, project manager,
performing issue in risk management.
Now, we are at the end of the course overview.
In the next module we will cover the fundamentals of project management, I will see you there.